Let's walk through the solution to the final exercise.
The first thing I want to do is make sure that both Spark and Kafka are running.
Ps -ef tells me that nothing is running
other than a couple other things for my JupyterLab.
I need to start Kafka.
I will go ahead and do that.
You'll notice later on we're going to click the "Start Banking
Simulation" once we're ready to run our Python script,
which is not quite yet.
Let's start up Spark.
Let's startup the master node and I'm
copying the file path to the log and I'm going to cat that.
There's my Spark master URI and let's start the worker up.
If I do ps -ef,
now I see two spark processes one,
two and it looks like Kafka is almost done and it is.
Now, we can write our code and pretty soon we'll be able to run it on Spark.
Let's clear this terminal,
so it's easier to read.
The first thing we've got already done here is we have
a schema for redisMessages already defined.
We're going to be pulling out a customer record and
a customer location record out of the redisSchema.
We're going to need some more JSON schemas in order to pass those. Let's create them.
The first one we'll call customerJSONSchema equals
StructType and we'll do an array of StructField.
Each of these is coming from my JSON example above and I need a birthDay field,
and I need an accountNumber field,
and lastly, I need a location.
Now, I'm going to create a customerLocationSchema, another StructType,
and we'll pass it the first one as an accountNumber and the second one is a location.
Let's create a SparkSession and let's set the log level to WARN.
Now, let's read the redis topic using the read stream on that SparkSession.
We will read in a Kafka topic using the format of Kafka.
We need to get the server name down with the right port and the topic will be called
redis-server and we want the earliest messages we can get and we'll load that.
Let's convert the Kafka data from binary to strings.
Using a select expression,
we'll cast the key as a string and now we'll extract the base64 out of that JSON message.
We're going to use withColumn to update the value column that we just selected here.
We're going to use the from_json method and the redisMessageSchema to pull the JSON out.
We want to select all the fields,
save those as a view.
Now, we're going to select a specific element we're looking for.
If we look at the schema,
we're looking for the element out of this record.
So zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDF we're pulling that base-64 field out by doing a select
key zSetEntries0 and pulling
the element field off of that, zSetEntries0.element from RedisData.
Now, we're going to actually create
two separate streaming dataframes that are both base64 decoded versions of this one.
We're going to have decoded stream 1 and decoded stream 2 and I'm going to
pull the data out of the redisEvent column and I need to declare it here as redisEvent.
I'm going to base64 decode that
zSetEntriesEncodedStreamingDataFrame.redisEvent and then I'm going to cast
it as a string and I'm going to do the same thing for this other one.
I've got two copies now that are separate dataframes, DF1 and DF2.
They're both base64 decoded JSON.
Now, I'm going to look for stuff in that JSON and see what we have.
Lets say zSetDecodedEntriesStreamingDF1.filter and
we're going to look for the redisEvent column containing a birthday field.
We're going to look for
the second one and we're going to say in that case it doesn't have the birthday field.
Knot colredisEvent.contains birthDay,
I just like to put a knot around this whole expression or before this whole expression.
Now, we're going to extract the JSON out of these specific ones,
one that has birthdays and one that doesn't.
The customer should have a birthday.
We're going to use that dataframe to get our birthday information.
zSetDecodedEntriesStreamingDF1.withColumncustomer and we're going to
pull out the redisEvent column and we're going to use the customerJSONSchema.
From that customer, I want all the subfields.
I'm going to create a view called customer.
Then, I'm going to go zSetDecodedEntries,
second dataframe which doesn't have birthdays and we're going to call
this customer location from_json redisEvent,
and use the customer locations schema.
Select column,
customerLocation.star
and createOrReplaceTempViewcustomerLocation.
Now, I've got the first dataframe that has customers,
the second one has customer location.
I'm going to select the customer information I want from dataframe 1.
We'll say customerStreamingDF equals
spark.sqlselect accountNumber as customerAccountNumber,
location as homeLocation, birthDay and
all of these are coming from Customer where birthDay is not null.
Shouldn't be null because we found all the ones that had a birthday,
but we'll put that in there just in case.
Second thing we're going to do is take
the customer streaming dataframe and pass
the birth day and we're going to go for just the birth year,
relevantCustomerFieldsStreamingDF
equals customerStreamingDF.select.
We're going to do another select which this time is using the.select method.
We're going to select the customerAccountNumber, the homeLocation,
and then we're going to split customerStreamingDF.birthDay on the dash character.
Let's look at our data.
We want to get the zeroth element in there.
We're going to get item 0 and we'll create an alias on that called birthYear.
The next thing we're going to do is select the customer location information we want.
We'll say customerLocationStreamingDF equals
spark.sql select accountNumber as
locationAccountNumber and then we want location,
selecting those from customer location and now we're going to do a join.
We'll call the resulting join currentAndHomeLocationStreamingDataFrames and
we'll join customerLocationStreamingDF using.join we will join to
relevantCustomerFieldsStreamingDF using the following expression.
CustomerAccountNumber equals locationAccountNumber.
Then, we're going to sync all of that to the console.
CurrentAndHomeLocationStreamingDF.writeStream.outputModeappend.formatconsole
and we're going
to start and await termination.
Let's save that and let's start the banking simulation.
Now, that's running.
We're going to start the Python application now,
cd/ home/workspace, list that and then we do submit-current-country.sh.
We're loading our jars,
libraries, now we're starting up Spark.
Now, we're running the Spark application.
A join can take up to two minutes to run,
so we're just going to wait it out here. There's our data.
We have the location account number,
the location, the customer account number,
which matches because the join is what made those the same,
the home location and the birth year.
So far, it looks like these customers are all currently in their home.
Can you spot a difference where someone's not in their home?
If we look at the second batch,
this customer is in Ghana currently,
even though their home is Alabama,
and the next customer is in New Mexico,
even though their home is Togo.
That's the data that we got from streaming data out of Redis.
Very important information about customers and their traveling.
That can be very helpful to detect potential fraud activity on banking charges.
We're going to stop the Spark from running.
I'm going to "Control+C" and kill that.